traditional cicd process
-  cd traditional push based approach using kubectl commads
 
problems
1)  Configuration Drift =manual changes on app
2)   Rollback is difficult and takes time
3)  security issues exposing credentials outside of ur cluster( service account tokens or kubeconfig files)


what is GITOPS ===

-  Def: DevOps practice using Git as single source of truth for infrastructure/app deployment.

prob soluion gitops gave/FEATURES-
1) Eliminates Configuration Drift- Git = single source of truth
2)  Rollback easy - Rollbacks via Git revert.
3) Requires PR-based changes for collaboration/audit.
4) -  one gitops can deploy cluster on multiple cluster although operator doesnot necessarily reside into other cluster
- GitOps Exists Because: Automation + Git fixHUMAN ERROR & CHAOS in deployments.


gitops principle

1) declarative code IN GIT (version control and immutabilty)
2) gitops operator pulls desired state from git and apply them in one or more cluster
3) reconcillation —-> gitops operator also makes sure that entire system is self healing —-> reduce risk of human errors  operator continuously loops through three steps 
1—> observe 2——> diff 3——> act


devops vs gitops DIFF == REMEMBER(2 REPO + PULL)
devops:—
-  in devops only one git repo for source code 
-  in devops changes pushed to k8 cluster

gitops:——>
-  gitops essentially two pipelines
             1) app code 
             2) k8 manifest 
-  gitops changes PULLED by gitops operator




argocd architecture 

1. Git Repository (Source of Truth)--- Argo CD  monitors the repository
2. Argo CD Server  --- entry point for users to interact
3. Argo CD Controller --- syncs the application’s desired state (from Git) with the actual state
4. Kubernetes Cluster (Target)  ---- where the application is deployed
5.  Application CRDs (Custom Resource Definitions)  ---defines how to deploy an application in a cluster, including the Git repository to sync from and the destination cluster and namespace.
6. dex — Dex is an OpenID Connect (OIDC) identity provider integrates with LDAP, GitHub, or Google


























































